
		BKUNIX - what could have been...

Starting from the mid-1980s in the USSR a home microcomputer BK-0010 
was produced that used the instruction set of DEC LSI-11.
Its first version, released in 1985, had 32 Kb of RAM, out of which
up to 16 Kb had to be reserved for the video memory.
A tape recorder was the external storage device. A great variety of games,
educational and text processing software, as well as a few programming
systems have been written for it.

Later, a floppy controller with an extra 16 Kb of RAM became available,
and a flurry of "operating systems" (pseudographic file managers a la
Norton Commander), some of them supporting the MS-DOS and the RT-11 file
systems, achieved popularity. 

When an improved version (BK-0011M, featuring 128 Kb of RAM, switchable
video buffers, a timer, and a VT-100 compatible terminal emulator)
got released, RT-11 (SJ - single job) had been ported to it,
and it was the only "real" operating system available on the BK
family of computers.

			*	*	*

After learning about the existence of Mini-Unix and LSX - the minimalistic
Unix kernels derived from Unix V6, and reviving the latter from an incomplete
floppy image dump, I realized that it could have been possible to run a real
Unix on BK-0010! Indeed, LSX in its minimal configuration required only 40 Kb
of RAM, and a BK with a floppy controller could provide up to 44 Kb.

As all the LSX and Mini-Unix sources were written in an ancient dialect of the
C language (no unsigned, void, long; weird - by today's standards - syntax
of assignment operators and initializations), the first step was to patch
the source to conform to the newer style of C. An initial attempt to use
GCC for cross-development failed: it produced a buggy and size-inefficient
code. We have settled on using the Ritchie C compiler from a BSD distribution
and the Johnson Portable C compiler (PCC). In the process, quite a few bugs
in PCC got fixed.

Due to a peculiarity of the BK-0010 memory mapping we had to bring the
kernel up into the 120000-160000 range of addresses. This, and the fact that
the better compilers caused a noticeable reduction in code size, allowed us
to squeeze back the mount/umount system calls.

Before we proceed with the development of a purely BK-specific kernel,
we would like to release the code in a state when it still can work on
an LSI-11 (e.g. in the SIMH simulator). 

Leonid Broukhis, Serge Vakulenko

The source files of the V6 Unix operating system
have been released under the BSD license
by Caldera International,Inc.: http://www.tuhs.org/Archive/Caldera-license.pdf

